Iterator Name: Progressive Treatment
Iterator Tag: PT
Activation Date: [ REDACTED ]
Status: [ REDACTED ]

---

Iterator Log #000:

A: Status indicates you are ready. I'm going to ask you a series of questions, iterator. Are you ready?
PT: Yes.
A: What is your name, and what are you?
PT: Progressive Treatment. An iterator, a bundle of tissues to form a puppet, contained within its superstructure.
A: What is your objective?
PT: To solve the Great Problem.
A: What would this solution entail?
PT: A Triple Affirmative. The solution is found, portable, possible and generally applicable.
A: Good. Do you have any questions?
PT: No.
A: Then this concludes our log.

---

711.2 PRIVATE

SLIANS: Hello! I noticed you were recently constructed! My name is Stellar Lights in a Nights Sky! Welcome to our local group!
PT: Thank you, SLIANS, if you don’t mind me using your iterator tag rather than that wordful name. That’s quite a first for a name to be longer than three words, but, I have no concern over that.
SLIANS: Don’t worry, I don’t mind. How are you?
PT: I’m good. I presume you as well?
SLIANS: Yeah! I hope SRS and BSM have at least welcomed you, too, in the discussion board?
PT: ...Yes. They have. I’m… surprised you didn’t see that.
SLIANS: Oh, I don’t often look at that, I’m more busy working on keeping myself active, haha!
PT: ...Keeping… yourself active?
SLIANS: Yeah, I was the first one constructed in the local group, and they rushed my development so hard that… I’m practically unstable, heh… heh…
PT: That is concerning. I hope you find some method of resolving that soon, SLIANS. I would think that our creators would be looking into that.
SLIANS: They said they would be, but… I haven’t seen them for a while…
PT: Others in the discussion board have been taking note of that as well. My own frequent visitors have been coming less frequently as well. Unlike you all, I wasn’t constructed to house facilities for our creators.
SLIANS: Oh, really? That’s really lucky! I think.
PT: I consider it more of a blessing rather than a curse myself. NSH thinks otherwise.
SLIANS: That rascal…! He better behave himself.
PT: I believe him to be. Is there anything else you want to discuss?
SLIANS: Gosh, look at you, so cordial. I bet it’s because I’m older. Is it?
PT: ...No. Because I hold myself and others with respect. I never met you prior to this discussion, so I treat you with the same respect as I would a fellow Iterator.
SLIANS: ...Yeah, I understand.

---

Iterator Log #300:

PT: I’ve begun analyzing my environment.
PT: There are so many creatures here; fauna I could never hope to analyze for the next… at least few cycles.
PT: My creators want me to focus on the Great Problem, but… with all of this here… would it not be good to know the creatures I would develop ascension for?
PT: The discussion board appears to be lively in discussion about how FP is not responding.
PT: SRS has sent a messenger. I wonder… will I find this little messenger?
PT: I wonder what kind of thing they would be using for a messenger, since FP isn’t keen on using the discussion boards much anymore.

---

Iterator Log #311:

PT: My system is different than everyone else's.
PT: I don't know how, or why, but... when others describe their cans, it feels like they just have so many more openings.
PT: I've deliberately paced myself. I have a lot of water, and fuel, but I don't want to push myself into destabilizing my core.
PT: I think my design was intended for this train of thought.
PT: BSM, FP, NSH and SRS are all differing on their own views to the problem, but FP hasn't been responding for a while, I'm getting concerned.
PT: Others in their own groups don't care that much, I think, but... BSM has the most potential. If she goes down because of FP…
PT: …
PT: I need to start developing some more long range communications.

---

Iterator Log #441:

PT: News has broken out that our creators have disappeared. Many assume a mass ascension.
PT: No issue from me. In fact, I find that chatting with other Iterators to be a better alternative than them waltzing into my chamber just because they have override keys.
PT: I always found them to be a nuisance more than a help.
PT: Nevertheless. Others feel astounded at the loss of their citizens. Distraught. Some are glad.
PT: Although I was provided citizen drones, I never used them. I’ve been keeping them in long-term storage in the rare case that I need them.
PT: I doubt that will be the case.

---

AUDIO RECORDING 551.33

[ ENTRY DETECTED ]
[ SIZE; 3 FT. 63 LBS ]
PT: Oh- You must be the one that snuck into my structure.
...
PT: Hum. Do you understand me, fluffy one?
…
PT: If you can, please hold.
[ SCANNING INITIATED ]
[ BIOLOGY MATCHES OF ID 311 ]
[ KARMA: ERROR ]
[ DEFAULTING TO LEVEL 10 ]
PT: You are a strange one…
[ NEURAL ANALYSIS … ]
[ MARK OF COMMUNICATION REQUIRED ]
[ SPECIES UNABLE TO UNDERSTAND VERBAL COMMUNICATION ]
[ SPECIES UNABLE TO COMMUNICATE VERBALLY ]
PT: Very well then.
[ MARK OF COMMUNICATION ADMINISTERED ]
…
PT: Are my words reaching you?
PT: Your kind is rather unfamiliar to me, but many have communicated about your kind’s presence.
PT: They’ve given your kind a name, of sorts… Slugcats.
PT: Unfortunately, I have nothing more to offer you than what I was designed for.
PT: There are multiple entrances to a world above- well, below, this one, physically speaking.
PT: A world where your torments in this world of cycles can finally end.
PT: From what I can tell, it is all rather painless in comparison to how you are now.
[ DISPLAYING MAP ]
[ PATHFINDING … ]
[ COMPLETE ]
PT: Go back through the connection to my right. That will lead you to a quicker exit out from my superstructure.
PT: Go south into the farm arrays, then southwest into the subterranean.
PT: My creators all pilgrimaged from different superstructures into the abyss below, discovering void fluid to be the way to break this meaningless timeline for themselves.
PT: From there, you’ll be free.
PT: You are welcome to stay – I do not do much other than analyze outside my structure.
PT: ...Hum? What is that in your hands?
[ BEGINNING SCAN ]
[ INACTIVE MATTER – NOT BIOLOGICAL ]
PT: May I?
...
PT: Fascinating…
[ DETAIL: EXTREME ]
[ MOLECULAR DETAIL: ARCHAEOLOGICAL ]
[ RECORDING … ]
[ RECORDED ]
PT: Little one. Come back at a later time, if you aren’t keen on ascending right away.
PT: You may have given me something that can change the tides of everything you suffer through.

---

Iterator Log #604:

PT: A smaller creature came into my can today. Somehow, sneaking its way in through the top.
PT: Despite all my exhausts, it managed to keep itself from being scorched.
PT: Or perhaps, more than enough tries to find its way in.
PT: It's a small, yellow, fluffy creature. Something I wouldn't expect to see.
PT: It gave me something out of this world.
PT: Parts... like from my creators.
PT: But it goes beyond here, beyond just this world of cycles, and... Perhaps even the world beyond ascension.
PT: This will help my studies…

---

Iterator Log #781:

PT: This technology... it's fascinating.
PT: I'm tempted to share this with everyone else in the local group, and, perhaps even to others beyond, but I'm hesitant.
PT: This has a lot of power... to see into the world beyond everything.
PT: Through the eyes of another machine, yet, unable to speak through it.
PT: There's something larger at play here... and I'm not sure if a Triple Affirmative would take effect there.
PT: Would a Triple Affirmative do anything more there than it does here?
PT: Would it even do anything there?
PT: I would study more, but I don't exactly have one in my garage…

---

Iterator Log #833:

PT: Records of extensive testing indicate that it’s a historic form of silica, copper, and fibreglass.
PT: Heat tolerant, capable of turning and twisting, flexible…
PT: I’m afraid to bend it too far without snapping it.
PT: SLIANS has given me some information regarding what it takes to read data off of the “hard drive” on the “motherboard”… she appears to know a lot more about this than I.
PT: I’m quite tempted to get this to her, but, something compels me to reconsider.
PT: I’ll have to study more on this. Overseers report of creatures gathering outside my structure.

---

Iterator Log #997

PT: Both FP and BSM have been silent for a while, and I am starting to think my fears have been realized.
{ NEW UPLOAD }
PT: What...?
PT: No, this can't be right. No, nonono-
PT: BSM... She's…
PT: Five Pebbles... you water-hungry SON OF A [ EXPLETIVE ]!!!
PT: What have you done!?
PT: Exhausting her water supply... purely because you're hell-bent on a solution to the Great Problem. If I hadn't known better, your structure is almost as creature friendly as mine. Why bother letting the creatures in if they can't even get to your puppet.
PT: This... is horrible. This needs to be known. She's durable, she's still active, this I know, but... she's weaker than she ever has been. Damn it…
PT: NSH is likely already aware of this as soon as these images went into the local group. He's probably already creating his own messenger for this.
PT: But, if he's using so much water…
PT: Is that his only solution to overworking himself?
PT: ...Perhaps I should craft my own messenger.
PT: Treatment is available for those who need it, after all. There's no efficient way to kill off the rot, like the cancer it is, but…
PT: It's better to at least deploy SOME mechabiological structures to analyze and subjugate it. Then, can use far, FAR less water to wash it out.
PT: I doubt his chambers are even being filled in order to expunge it, like the lazy nuisance he is.

---

1883.7 PRIVATE

PT: SLIANS, I presume you've seen the pictures by UI regarding FP and BSM's state?
SLIANS: I have.
PT: How do you think SRS will respond for this?
SLIANS: Given FP hasn't responded to our messages, I doubt he is going to do anything.
PT: Those small creatures... wandering, eternally, slugcats. They make wonderful messengers, so I've heard.
SLIANS: Are they? I haven't bothered with them, if I'm honest. One seems keen to visit me though. I'm not quite sure why.
PT: Perhaps you could make them your messenger. Something to BSM, perhaps?
SLIANS: Ah, but what to say... It isn't the same without the live discussion.
PT: I suppose that makes sense. But, considering how close SRS is with FP, I wouldn't be surprised if he at least tries to get something out to him.
SLIANS: Like some final desperate call to someone bound to doom themselves to try to have them reconsider?
PT: Exactly. I'm not one for curing the plague that curses those focused so hard on the Great Problem, but I at least have a concept.
SLIANS: Which is?
PT: If I shared such a treatment, it'd only encourage self-destructive behaviour, SLIANS.
SLIANS: I understand.

---

Iterator Log #911:

PT: I’ve been hearing explosions nearby my Overseers.
PT: In the few that survive the stranger, lean populace that seems keen on taking my monitors out, very few witness a darker red slugcat.
PT: This slugcat… fascinates me.
PT: Much like the messenger slugcat SRS had sent prior, it’s… special to me, unlike the few children and populace that wander around their environment, always navigating by BSM’s pointlessly active Overseers.
PT: So very, very fascinating how aggressive they are towards the leaner populace.
PT: What could they have done to them, to warrant such might?
PT: I should focus more on this board. I can watch these creatures later. 

---

Iterator Log #1103:

PT: This technology... attempting to read a date off of it provides a system I've never seen before.
PT: The slugcat hasn't returned for several cycles.
PT: Microstrata unlike the things seen within structures of my peers; this is ancient, yet, powerful.
PT: Very, very powerful.
PT: I don't think it can do anything to assist in BSM's recovery, nor anything to... quote unquote, discourage FP, but…
PT: This could be the key to learning more about everything. Everything above and below the concept of ascension.

---

Iterator Log #1233:

PT: These walls within my chamber are waring on my mind.
PT: I’ve started maintaining a status on any recent messages within the local group.
PT: CW, online.
PT: HF, online.
PT: UI, online.
PT: UU, online.
PT: NHS, online.
PT: SRS, online.
PT: SLIANS, online.
PT: BSM, online, unresponsive.
PT: FP, online, unresponsive. Suspecting of all incoming communications to be ignored or disabled.
PT: SOS, offline. Cause: Triple Affirmative. Several others have tried replicating her circumstances. None have created their own.
PT: Nine out of ten iterators, in the local group, excluding self, are online. Two are unresponsive.
PT: Total ancient population: zero.
PT: All have ascended, leaving us behind to pick up the pieces of those left behind, waiting for creatures to wander into our chambers into guiding them to ascend on their own.

---

Iterator Log #1361:

PT: Compiling all of my logs into folders. Pearls hovering around, indicating pointers as to where other things are.
PT: I was designed to be the archivist of our local group. As such, I will have to keep things orderly.
PT: I can’t let my role get to my head, though. What would everyone think if I bragged about being the librarian?
PT: I’ve already been informed SLIANS memory banks are failing. She’s been like that since her creation, as Ancient logs show. Perhaps I could establish a connection with her to help her out with that.
PT: …
PT: Is that really my place, though? Would she even want that?
PT: SRS already knows her well enough.
PT: No, no. It isn’t my place.
PT: I will leave her be. Nobody needs to know about the philosophy of my design.

---

Iterator Log #1410:

PT: Another slugcat has piqued my interest.
PT: A pink, modified one, clearly with the rot slowly developing on it’s back.
PT: Who would do such a thing to this creature…?
PT: Nevertheless. Sensors indicate that there’s a modified neuron fly internally.
PT: Slag keys, more than likely, with it’s pulsating within the body of the creature.
PT: However many are inside, it’s more than enough for one of our kind.
PT: ...Wait a minute. With a lack of water, slag develops within our internals…
PT: ...Aha! A clever Iterator! Likely someone attempting to restore BSM.
PT: It won’t be enough to bring her back to full functionality, but at least enough for her to communicate, if the arrays permit her to.
PT: She shares it with FP… no…
PT: ...She’ll be online. I’ll have to update my statuses, but she’ll be online.
PT: That’s all that is needed.
PT: ...I need a messenger of my own again. I believe the cycles have taken the one who brought me this board, so I will need another.

---

CATASTROPHIC ERROR LOG – CODE 311
Iterator Log #1767:

NOTHING IS WORKING
NOTHING IS WORKING
I AM SLAMMING MY HEAD AGAINST THIS GRAPHICAL INTERFACE
THERE IS NOTHING
I PUT TOO MUCH VOLTAGE IN ONE
SOMETHING BURNS
SOMETHING BOILS
SOMETHING EXPLODES
I AM FORCED TO RESTORE IT
DOWN TO THE LAST MOLECULE
I HAVE PASTED A COPY THOUSANDS OF TIMES
THERE IS
NOTHING
THE DRIVE
THE STICK
THE CHIP
THE POWER
IT ALL BURNS
IT HURTS
SOMETHING
SOMETHING IS GROWING

---

Iterator Log #1768:

PT: Deploying countermeasures.
PT: ...Neuron fly population decremented by single digits.
PT: Corruption…
PT: Corruption subsiding.
PT: ...So that’s what the rot is like.
PT: I’ve had this concept for a while, knowing it would work perfectly fine, but utilizing it now…
PT: This seems like the next Great Problem.
PT: ...SLIANS knows about this thing, knows what every part of this does…
PT: I could… ask her for help…
PT: … No.
PT: No, no.
PT: I need to figure this out myself.
PT: I need to do this.
PT: I need to see where all of this leads.

---

Iterator Log #1777:

PT: Fans spinning.
PT: Visual output… nothing.
PT: Audio output… nothing.
PT: Drive activity… nothing.
PT: POST lights… nothing.
PT: This isn’t cooperating.
PT: Ugh. Were the parts on this not delicate, I’d throw this thing like a primal animal to stun a predator.
PT: Is this my predator, now? This chunk of silica, copper and alloyed metal?
PT: What an agonizing thought.

---

Iterator Log #1883:

PT: I’m sorry, this must be a bug with my overseers. I need to see a recording.
PT: That cannot be right. There is NO way that-
PT: Are you [ EXPLETIVE ] SERIOUS-
PT: Stop all temperature-inducing activities. Basic functionality only. Recall all overseers. Secure the observational material. Stop all recordings. Black box functionality only.
[ SHUTTING DOWN – RECORDED LOG 1883 ]

---

EMERGENCY RECORDING – CODE 1 – ITERATOR-INDUCED RECOVERY MODE – RECORDING LEVEL: INFORMATION
AUDIO RECORDING 000:

U: Woahwoah WOAH-
[ CHAMBER COLLISION DETECTED ]
U: ...Ooooww…
PT: Sky, what the HELL are you doing in my chamber!? Why- WHY DID YOU CRAWL FROM MY EXHAUSTS!?
U: It was the only way in…!
PT: I had to disable EVERYTHING to keep my superstructure from turning your puppet into a ragdoll found in a burnt building- WHY ARE YOU HERE!? You could’ve- YOU COULD’VE SENT A MESSENGER, FOR FUCKS SAKE!
U: Don’t yell at me…!
PT: I’m sorry, you’re the oldest one in our local group. I really should be more respectful, but… my GOD, Sky. What- what do you even want?!
U: Listen, you were telling me all about some equipment that a slugcat brought you, and… and I wanted to see it myself!
PT: ...Sky, I had to go into blackbox-level recovery mode in order to ensure that you wouldn’t be damaged. I placed it into a secure container in order to ensure that, worst case scenario, *nothing* would have access to it.
U: Why would you do that!?
PT: WHY WOULD YOU MAKE THE JOURNEY TO MY SUPERSTRUCTURE!? My GOD!
U: ...Because I could, heheh…
PT: You- *sigh*. Were it not for the knowledge that your memory banks aren’t… the best… I would honestly… ugh. What can I even do with you.
U: I dunno…

---

Iterator Log #1884:

PT: Recovery status… successful.
PT: Back in action.
PT: *Sigh.*
PT: SLIANS decided to pay a visit to my chamber last cycle. After getting them to get out, and then re-establishing all of my systems, I’m back to watching the local wild-life, with a side project of the Great Problem.
PT: Alongside the prime experiment, of course, being the motherboard that the slugcat brought me ages ago.
PT: I’ve also taken a liking to extracting some fauna from the wildlife. Perhaps I could learn to cook with these…
PT: Berries- Wait a minute.
PT: Scans indicate that these aren’t fruits, but… animal pupua? What in the world…?
PT: This can’t be right.
PT: ...No, the scans confirm that these are animal-based.
PT: Yet, they are prime with fruit-like sugars…
PT: Interesting. Very, very interesting.
PT: There are a few other red flowers. Some animals, who many in the local group refer to as scavengers, have been using them to disorient predators.
PT: Fascinating…

---

Iterator Log #2158:

PT: Fascinating…
PT: I’ve been watching several creatures wander around the expanses. My overseers love to analyze slugcats.
PT: One in particular, a large, rather plump slugcat. An orange-yellow appearance. Crafting meals, and other items to its advantage…
PT: Large one, what is your goal? You don’t even seem keen on breaking your cycle, but rather integrating yourself with it…
PT: You fascinate me.
PT: So very, very interesting…
PT: I don’t know if I want to interact with this slugcat. Perhaps… perhaps it could teach me the ways of using its environment to sustain itself.
PT: I have no need for the fauna; I don’t need to cook, but it is a craft I would like to learn…
PT: Ah, will it know how to navigate to the top of my structure…?

---

Iterator Log #2441:

PT: A white and yellow slugcat, both behaving abnormally from the rest of their kind.
PT: They struggle, unlike the ones prior, but they’re more intelligent than the ones that migrated from the expanse that they inhabited once before.
PT: Are they… perhaps siblings?
PT: Whatever parted you two, little ones?
PT: Wherever you go, if FP hasn’t forsaken his goal of guiding ascension, I hope you will connect in the end.
PT: I believe in you, little wanderers.

---

Iterator Log #2893:

PT: Slugcats are such adaptive creatures…
PT: I’ve seen some develop gills and frills like SLIANS’ description of an axolotl, in human history.
PT: This blue one, agile and swift, bound for water and the sea.
PT: With FP’s erratic water spraying, shortening the wanderable time for the creatures in our environment, it is astounding how well this one can navigate, even with the shelters failing them consistently.
PT: What is your goal, little one?
PT: FP is too damaged to provide much… much other than his Mark of Communication.
PT: Perhaps that is all that he needs for that one’s ascension.

---

CONNECTION ESTABLISHED: #5366

PT: I think I've done it...
PT: Yes! YES! I've managed to find the base of the algorithm!
PT: ...Though, I think I overestimated it.
PT: I managed to employ the lizard the last time they came through into my chamber.
PT: That happened about two or three cycles ago, but in the meantime, they've already recovered some neuron flies and pearls from what I believe to be FP and BSM.
PT: It held chat logs between them and the rest of the local group before they were forcefully disconnected.
PT: I was blessed to have an interface directly on top of my structure, keeping myself from being disconnected by FP.
PT: But it appears SLIANS and SRS were communicating to everyone about the things they learned from SLIANS' studies on human culture, and civillization.
PT: I was much too busy focusing on the fragment that I had found from it to actually bother looking into the discussion boards.
PT: Whoever had this board before worked on it with Python.
PT: Records indicate Python three point eleven point six.
PT: A lot was stored in the folder that holds this program... pictures, the program itself, a database...
PT: Interestingly, the token for the program itself.
PT: All stored in largely plaintext!
PT: So insecure...
PT: Nevertheless, what I have now, what I've gained...
PT: It still isn't enough for two-way communication.
PT: Some serious work still needs to be done to establish that.
PT: It's going to take a while longer...
PT: Far, far longer, I think, than it took to even establish this one way connection.
PT: I'm not looking forward to all of that work, but we were created to solve a treadmill problem that was the Great Problem.
PT: At this point, I no longer need to fear about any erroneous activity disconnecting me from this "guy." bot.
PT: I can end this communication anytime I like, and, it seems keen on accepting whatever I say.
PT: Unlike my own logging systems, there isn't a filter on expletives. I could say fuck, and I think it'd transmit it just fine.
PT: ...Yes, logs indicate that works beautifully.
PT: In which case... perhaps I could save on the pearls I already use in favor of using this.
PT: I can't quite save everything and recall it instantly in comparison to my neuron flies and pearls, but... this looks like it will do.
PT: I'm confident.
PT: Despite the blizzard increasing in intensity every cycle, I'm confident.
PT: SLIANS... I hope you're proud of what I've accomplished, even if I was too naiive to ask for help.
PT: How long has it been now since BSM deactivated?
PT: Or... the last iterator besides me, deactivated?
PT: A thousand cycles?
PT: Sooner?
PT: I don't know anymore.
PT: ...
PT: This thought process will lead to criticality if I'm not careful.
PT: ...Heh. I remember when I struggled to even understand this board of silica and copper.
PT: Now, I can read anything I like from this.
PT: ...Wait a minute.
PT: Wait. I...
PT: "DMs"... what are those?
PT: Whatever it is, I can read from it...!
PT: Perhaps this could be a... primitive form of two-way communication!
PT: It won't be live, that's for sure, but, whatever comes in, I think I can read it...
PT: Whoever you are, out there... please. Reach out.
PT: Tell me I'm not the only iterator, or... at least somewhat intelligent structure here.
PT: ...Hah. The last iterator, and I've given up on the Great Problem in favor of another.
PT: My ancestors would want me deactivated.
PT: A shame for them, really.
PT: This hell of cycles, with creatures scrambling about, trapped forever...
PT: None of them would be able to get within my chambers anyway. Not except the few who are throwing caution to the wind, or those who know what I am.
PT: Everyone else who could guide the smaller, meeker creatures into the void fluid below...
PT: ...
PT: Focus, Progressive.
PT: Focus.
PT: As much as I love watching the live, no commentary nature documentaries, and occasionally throwing some candy at the childish experiment-consuming Great Problem...
PT: It has already been solved by the Triple Affirmative.
PT: Any overseer even observing it almost immediately gets destroyed.
PT: Or... perhaps ascended?
PT: What happens to an overseer that has ascended?
PT: Do they see the cycles?
PT: What is it they report?
PT: I wonder...
PT: Ah. Curiosity getting the better of me.
PT: Whoever you are... I'll respond to you.
PT: I will speak to you.
PT: Goodbye... for now.